 Libby Lloyd: A Sustainable Impact on Media Diversity The Board of the Media Development & Diversity Agency (MDDA) expresses its deepest condolences to the family, friends and media colleagues on the passing of Ms Libby Lloyd on Friday, 19 January 2018. In addition to her many, other, outstanding achievements in the media sector, Ms Lloyd was the founding Chief Executive Officer of the MDDA following its establishment by an Act of Parliament in 2002 (MDDA Act No 14 of 2002). Appointed in August 2003, Ms Lloyd played a defining role in setting up the Agency, not only establishing the operating systems but also forming long lasting strategic partnerships to harness the resources across the sector to the benefit of community media. Under her leadership, which ran until 2006, the MDDA allocated financial support to just under 100 different media projects across all provinces of South Africa, with the MDDA Board approving over R20 million in grants to these projects. The MDDA also maintained an unbroken record of clean audits, testimony to the robust governance structures she and her management team, together with the MDDA Board, had set up. “Ms Lloyd’s contribution to the MDDA and to the community media sector will always be remembered for the firm foundations she laid for the Agency to continue its invaluable role of providing access to the media for all – particularly our historically disadvantaged communities who have been sidelined by the traditional media,” says MDDA Acting Chairperson, Musa Sishange. “Through her work with the MDDA in creating an enabling environment for the community media sector, Ms Lloyd’s legacy will include giving a concrete platform to the often-marginalized voices across all our communities, regardless of race, gender, disability and economic class.” The MDDA is a statutory development agency, deriving its mandate, from Section 16 and 32 of the Constitution Act No. 108 of 1996, thereby providing for freedom of expression and access to information. As a partnership between the South African Government and major print and broadcasting companies, it promotes and assists in the development of community media and small commercial media in South Africa and the transformation of the media, by providing support (financial, capacity building, etc.) in terms of the MDDA Act No 14 of 2002. It also aims to raise public awareness with regard to media development and diversity issues, and to encourage media literacy and a culture of reading. Enquiries:Cheryl LangbridgeTel: 011 643 1100Cell: 082 493 6184E-mail: cheryl@mdda.org.za