8 May 2018 The Minister of Communications, Ms. Nomvula Mokonyane and the Film and Publication Board (FPB) in partnership with the South African Police Services (SAPS) and the City of Cape Town (Economic Development) today destructed close to 106 000 illegal pirated DVD's and CD's estimated at a market value of more than R10 600 000 million. The illegal pirated DVD’s and CD’s that were destructed were seized at various raids conducted in Cape Town and Durban in conjunction with the Law Enforcement Agencies. “The destruction is conducted purely to prevent the confiscated DVD's and CD's from finding their way back to the illegal market, thus exposing children to undesirable and age inappropriate content.  Most of the confiscated material was not classified and contained age inappropriate content which should not be sold on the streets and taxi ranks. This material poses the risk of exposing children and the vulnerable to disturbing and age-inappropriate content". "The impact of illegal distribution of DVD's and CD's is a scourge that negatively impacts on the industry as well as the economy of the country. Piracy peddlers steal intellectual property; they steal revenue due to destitute families by depriving them of royalties. People lose their jobs as more DVD shops close due to poor business."  Said Minister Mokonyane The Films and Publications Act 65 of 1996, as amended (Act) prohibits the distribution of unclassified films and games. The Act further requires the classification decisions to be clearly and conspicuously displayed, the failure of which could render one liable upon prosecution to a period of imprisonment of up to 6 months, a fine or both. The FPB values partnerships with various stakeholders in the industry including the general public, we urge society to be vigilant and report these illegal distributors to ensure the protection of children against exposure to harmful content. For more information contact:Mlimandlela NdamaseMinisterial SpokespersonCell: 083 480 0014E-mail: NdamaseM@dws.gov.za